Add "Sign metadata with externally generated signature" page (#1770)
advancedtelematic/aktualizr: docs/ota-client-guide/modules/ROOT/pages/sign-with-external-signature.adoc

= Sign metadata with externally generated signature
ifdef::env-github[]

[NOTE]
====
We recommend that you link:https://docs.ota.here.com/ota-client/latest/{docname}.html[view this article in our documentation portal]. Not all of our articles render correctly in GitHub.
====
endif::[]

For safety reasons you may want to sign your metadata with the signature generated by your own PKI.
For more information on where to find your metadata files see the xref:finding-unsigned-metadata.adoc[Find the unsigned Root and Targets metadata].

=== Signing Root metadata

> To sign `root.json` with your own generated signature you will need the name of key with which it was signed previously.
> You can use multiple signatures for signing.
> For verification purposes, with each signature provided you will need to specify the name of the key with which it was generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign `root.json` with your own generated signature, specify the name of the key that you used to sign the file the last time.
You can use multiple signatures for signing.
For verification purposes, for each signature, specify the name that you used to generate the key.
```

```
garage-sign root sign \
        --repo <repository-name> \
        --old-root-alias <key-name> \
        --signatures <key-name=signature>
```

> === Signing Targets metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Sign Targets metadata
```

> For signing `targets.json` the procedure is similar except you don't need the old key name.
> 
> NOTE: If you're passing a signature you cannot pass a version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To sign `targets.json` with your own generated signature, specify the name that you used to generate the key.
You can use multiple signatures for signing.
For verification purposes, for each signature, specify its key name.

NOTE: If you pass a signature, you cannot pass a version.
```

```
garage-sign targets sign \
        --repo <repository-name> \
        --signatures <key-name=signature>
```

> == Example script with a flow that is using OpenSSL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Example script with a flow that is using OpenSSL as a stand-in for an external KMS
```

> == Example script with a flow that is using OpenSSL as a stand-in for an external KMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Example script 

This example includes a flow that uses OpenSSL as a stand-in for an external Key Management Service (KMS).
```

```
#!/bin/bash

set -x
set -euo pipefail

> garage_sign="${1}"

Reviewer 2: I would get rid of this parameter and call `garage-sign` directly below for the example so make it easier to read. Maybe also get rid of the next parameter.

shift
repo_name="${1}"
shift
online_credentials="${1}"
shift
root_pem_path="${1}"
shift
targets_pem_path="${1}"
shift
length="${1}"
shift
filename="${1}"
shift
version="${1}"
shift
sha="${1}"
shift
hardwareid="${1}"

${garage_sign} init --repo ${repo_name} --credentials ${online_credentials}

> # generate keys to sign with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Generate keys for signing.
```

openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out root_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in root_private.pem -out root_public.pem
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out targets_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in targets_private.pem -out targets_public.pem

# initial pulling of unsigned metadata
${garage_sign} targets pull --repo ${repo_name}
${garage_sign} move-offline --repo ${repo_name} --old-root-alias origroot
${garage_sign} root pull --repo ${repo_name}

> # import root public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Import your public Root key.
```

> echo '{"keyval":{"public":"'$(awk 1 ORS='\\n' < ${root_pem_path})'"},"keytype":"RSA"}' > tuf/${repo_name}/keys/root_public.pub

Reviewer 2: I would use the new command `importpub` here and only publish this once garage-sign is updated.

${garage_sign} root key add --repo ${repo_name} --key-name root_public

> # import targets public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Import your public Targets key.
```

echo '{"keyval":{"public":"'$(awk 1 ORS='\\n' < ${targets_pem_path})'"},"keytype":"RSA"}' > tuf/${repo_name}/keys/targets_public.pub
${garage_sign} root targets-key add --repo ${repo_name} --key-name targets_public

> # signing and pushing root metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sign and push the Root metadata.
```

${garage_sign} root increment-version --repo ${repo_name}
${garage_sign} root get-unsigned --repo ${repo_name} > root.canonical.json
signature=$(openssl dgst -sha256 -sigopt rsa_padding_mode:pss -sigopt rsa_pss_saltlen:-1 -sign root_private.pem root.canonical.json | base64 -w0)
${garage_sign} root sign --repo ${repo_name} --old-root-alias origroot --signatures root_public=${signature}
${garage_sign} root push --repo ${repo_name}

> # signing and pushing targets metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sign and push the Targets metadata
```

${garage_sign} targets increment-version --repo ${repo_name}
${garage_sign} targets get-unsigned --repo ${repo_name} > targets.canonical.json
signature=$(openssl dgst -sha256 -sigopt rsa_padding_mode:pss -sigopt rsa_pss_saltlen:-1 -sign targets_private.pem targets.canonical.json | base64 -w0)
${garage_sign} targets sign --repo ${repo_name} --signatures targets_public=${signature}
${garage_sign} targets push --repo ${repo_name}

${garage_sign} targets pull --repo ${repo_name}

> # signing and pushing targets metadata once more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sign and push the Targets metadata once more.
```

= Sign metadata with externally generated signature
ifdef::env-github[]

[NOTE]
====
We recommend that you link:https://docs.ota.here.com/ota-client/latest/{docname}.html[view this article in our documentation portal]. Not all of our articles render correctly in GitHub.
====
endif::[]

> For safety reasons you may want to sign your metadata with the signature generated by your own PKI.
> For more information on where to find your metadata files see the xref:finding-unsigned-metadata.adoc[Find the unsigned Root and Targets metadata].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For safety reasons, you may want to sign your metadata with the signature generated by your own PKI.
For more information on where to find your metadata files, see the xref:finding-unsigned-metadata.adoc[Find the unsigned Root and Targets metadata].
```

== Sign Root metadata

To sign `root.json` with your own generated signature, specify the name of the key that you used to sign the file the last time.
You can use multiple signatures for signing.
For verification purposes, for each signature, specify the name that you used to generate the key.

```
garage-sign root sign \
        --repo <repository-name> \
        --old-root-alias <key-name> \
        --signatures <key-name=signature>
```

== Sign Targets metadata

To sign `targets.json` with your own generated signature, specify the name that you used to generate the key.
You can use multiple signatures for signing.
For verification purposes, for each signature, specify its key name.

NOTE: If you pass a signature, you cannot pass a version.

```
garage-sign targets sign \
        --repo <repository-name> \
        --signatures <key-name=signature>
```

== Example script

This example includes a flow that uses OpenSSL as a stand-in for an external Key Management Service (KMS).

> WARNING: This script calls `garage-sign move-offline` at some point which makes irreversible changes to the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: This script calls `garage-sign move-offline`, which makes irreversible changes to the namespace.
```

If you want to run it to see the result, make sure you run it with a dispensable account first.

```
#!/bin/bash

set -x
set -euo pipefail

online_credentials="${1}"
shift
root_pem_path="${1}"
shift
targets_pem_path="${1}"
shift
length="${1}"
shift
filename="${1}"
shift
version="${1}"
shift
sha="${1}"
shift
hardwareid="${1}"

garage_sign init --repo example_repo --credentials ${online_credentials}

# Generate keys for signing.
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out root_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in root_private.pem -out root_public.pem
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out targets_private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in targets_private.pem -out targets_public.pem

> # Initial pulling of unsigned metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Perform initial pulling of the unsigned metadata.
```
